# Web Structure Modelling

A Python-based project to create 3D web structures according to user specifications for use with OpenSCAD. All output is saved to clipboard. 

- **sw.py** can create spiral models with 3 modes of spiral spacing, and can be exported as a 3D model in the formats of .stl, .off, .amf, .dxf, .svg, or .csg. 
- **swMatlab.m** can create spiral models with 3 modes of spiral spacing, and can be exported as an .xyz file (Discrete model)
- **matlabPlot.py** can visually present a 3D model of the resulting .xyz file using *matplotlib*

        
# Abstract

The major ampullate silk of Nephila clavipes is highly valued for synthetic replication due to its unique array of physical properties. However, the chemico-physical conditions of the Nephila clavipes spinning glands are not extensively documented. As a result, all synthetic spinning methods have to account for this lack of research and cannot efficiently replicate the nanostructure of the silk. The nanostructure is the source of the macroscale properties of the silk, and a poorly formed nanostructure detrimentally affects the properties of the silk. This project attempts to mitigate nanostructural flaws through geometric optimization of web structures. We hypothesize that the use of computational modeling and testing will lead to a more efficient use of web structures and will assist in their geometric optimization. Additionally, we hypothesize that increasing the quantity of radial and spiral threads will increase the time to failure and displacement distance in a localized loading case. Using Python and MATLAB scripts, we created .stl and .xyz files of geometric web structures, which were then employed in computational tests using LAMMPS (Large-scale Atomic/Molecular Massively Parallel Simulator). The computational LAMMPS tests strongly supported the hypothesis that the use of Python and MATLAB scripts would lead to a process which can customize and create web structure for computational testing was supported. Additionally, it was found that the use of models tested with LAMMPS created a more realistic environment for the successful testing of the models. However, the evidence refuted the hypothesis that an increase in quantity of both the spiral threads and radial threads would increase the displacement distance and time to failure. The data supported this for the increase in spiral threads; however, an increase of radial threads decreased the displacement distance. Thus, the hypothesis was not supported, although more data must be collected in order to warrant an absolute conclusion.
